DOCS-1755 - Document Search Assist Filter (#6933)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-page/modify-search-from-messages-tab.md

   :::
1. In the **Search** tab, click **Start** to being the search.

### Filter results from a column

You can filter your search results directly from a column in the **Messages** tab instead of typing a filter clause into the query. When you apply a filter, Sumo Logic adds a `where` clause to your query and reruns the search.

To filter results from a column:

1. Run a search. In the **Messages** tab, click the filter icon in the header of the column you want to filter.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/search/get-started-search/search-page/search-assist-filter.png')} alt="Filter icon and filter panel on a search results column" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />
1. Choose an operator and provide a value.
   - **String fields**. Select an operator such as **Text contains**, **Text does not contain**, or **Text starts with**, then enter a value. You can also select a value from the **Top 10 values** list, which shows the most common values in the column with their approximate counts.
   - **Number fields**. Select an operator such as **Greater than**, **Less than**, or **Equal to**, then enter a value.

> 1. Click **Apply**. Sumo Logic adds the filter to your query as a `where` clause (for example, `| where _size > 1000`) and refreshes the results.

Reviewer: @JV0812 After clicking apply the query gets updated and then user has to manually click on search btn to get the updated query  result, _it does not refresh automatically_

Author: Good catch — fixed. The step now says applying a filter adds the `where` clause to the query but does not refresh results automatically, and added a follow-up step to click the search button to run the updated query. Also corrected the intro (removed "reruns the search"). — via Claude Code

   :::
1. In the **Search** tab, click **Start** to being the search.

### Filter results from a column

You can filter your search results directly from a column in the **Messages** tab instead of typing a filter clause into the query. When you apply a filter, Sumo Logic adds a `where` clause to your query, which you then run to see the narrowed results.

To filter results from a column:

> 1. Run a search. In the **Messages** tab, click the filter icon in the header of the column you want to filter.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/search/get-started-search/search-page/search-assist-filter.png')} alt="Filter icon and filter panel on a search results column" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

Reviewer 2: I pulled this image from the branch to check it — it's an annotated demo capture with red boxes/arrows labeling "String fields" and "Number fields" over the filter icons. It doesn't actually show the filter panel, operator dropdown, or Top 10 values list that the next two steps describe, so the alt text ("Filter icon and filter panel on a search results column") overstates what's shown. It also has internal host/cluster identifiers visible (e.g. `epd_dev1_cluster`, `org-service-5fc5b766b6-697nz`) — matches what you flagged in the PR description. Worth replacing with a masked capture that shows the actual filter panel before publish.

1. Choose an operator and provide a value.
   - **String fields**. Select an operator such as **Text contains**, **Text does not contain**, or **Text starts with**, then enter a value. You can also select a value from the **Top 10 values** list, which shows the most common values in the column with their approximate counts.

>    - **Number fields**. Select an operator such as **Greater than**, **Less than**, or **Equal to**, then enter a value.

Reviewer 2: Per the PR notes, these operator lists are phrased "such as" because they reflect only what the demo showed.

1. Click **Apply**. Sumo Logic adds the filter to your query as a `where` clause (for example, `| where _size > 1000`).

> 1. Click the search button to run the updated query.

Reviewer 2: This file uses **Start** everywhere else for running/re-running a query (e.g. two lines up in this same doc: "click **Start** (or press Enter/Return) to run the appended search"). Suggest matching that here for consistency:

```suggestion
1. Click **Start** (or press Enter/Return) to run the updated query.
```
